# ERA_LagoonOfParqueUnzue
This a repo which contains the supplementary information about the manuscript called ¨Bacteriological and eutrophication risk assessment of an Argentinian temperate shallow urban lagoon¨ being the authors Melina Celeste Crettaz Minaglia & Diamela Gianello (see below ¨Author contributions¨).

Status: manuscript under review

* The main objective of this work was to study the water quality and to assess the bacteriological and eutrophication risks during 2015-2019 in the temperate shallow urban lagoon of the Parque Unzué (Gualeguaychú, Argentina) through physicochemical and bacteriological parameters and to predict these risks under climate change scenarios through temperature and rain indicators. 

We used a long temporal serie (2015-2019) where the data were generated by us and our team due to the study area has not an environmental base line. Data were pretested using Shapiro–Wilks normality test and then, we used:

* nonparametric Kruskal–Wallis test with α < 0.05
* Mann–Whitney pairwise comparison test
* Pearson correlations with α < 0.05 (corrplot package, Wei & Simko, 2017)
* 3D Principal component analysis (FactoMineR package, Lê et al., 2008 and plot3D, Soetaert, 2014) using iterative imputation matrix as input (missMDA package, Josse & Husson, 2016)

All figures were performed using the package ggplot2 (Wickham, 2016). 

On the other hand, we evaluated the environmental and bacteriological risk assessment using the contamination factor (CF), the pollution load index (PLI), and the water quality index (WQI). Finally, two predictive models were carried out with SigmaPlot 12.0® Software using TC and Chl-a as indicators of bacteriological and eutrophication risks respectively  in functions of the temperature, and one-week cumulative rain as indicators of climate change according to the predictive scenarios (IPCC, 2007) for the study area.


Our highlights were:

* High organic contamination was observed throughout the study period.
* Organic contamination indicators showed a contamination factor (CF) from moderate to high.
* Pollution load was high and water quality was poor during the majority of the study period.
* Bacteriological and eutrophication risks were high during the period of study and will increase under climate change scenarios.


Author contributions

MCCM participated in the data collection, sample analysis, monitoring design, funding acquisition, project administration; data analysis and model designs, original draft, writing, review, and editing.
DG participated in the data collection, sample analysis, data curation, data analysis and visualization, original draft, writing, review, and editing.


Funding

This study was funded by the Universidad Autónoma de Entre Ríos through the projects PIDIN-UADER “Diagnóstico ambiental y propuesta de gestión para la Laguna del Parque Unzué (Gualeguaychú, Entre Ríos)” (Res. C.S. 404/15), and PIDIN-UADER   "Contribución al conocimiento de la ecología de dos lagunas urbanas pampeanas: laguna del Parque Unzué (Gualeguaychú, Entre Ríos) y laguna Los Patos (Ensenada, Buenos Aires)" (Res. 199/18).

Acknowledgments
We are grateful to the students and professors of the IBGA Laboratory for their collaboration in the samplings that were carried out in the lagoon of the Parque Unzué. 


